Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today's Monday, February the
2nd, and this is the Moneyball Morning
Report. Charts by Trendpider and Gamma
Flows by Menthther Q. Taking a look at
the E- Mini S&P
and the first thing that we notice if
we're thinking about last night's market
kickoff formation, we can see the first
30 minutes of trading is where we're
sitting right now. My commentary was the
following. One, if we break above that
first five minute candlestick, we will
attempt to fill the gap. And we did.
filled the gap, ran right into supply,
and then collapsed right into demand.
Now, you know, I've had this alert since
Wednesday, maybe.
But here's what we notice. This is
Friday's event,
and this is Thursday's event. And
currently, we're sitting right in the
middle of Thursday. Now, we did break
down, make a lower low. That's important
to understand. And we are sitting
underneath the 30 minute candlestick
formation of Friday. My suspicion is
that that is where resistance is going
to sit in the near term. That is
thereabouts.
Friday's
Friday's high. So, I'm going to create
an alert there. That is going to give us
the above below region as it were. If we
stay here in a sideways patch, we've got
some more downward flow. If we break to
the north above 6974,
we are going to have more buying action
that sends us back into 7,000. So, here
is the backdrop. earnings. I think about
40% of
the um
instruments
that give earnings are
completed with that.
Once they get completed, what we have is
the buyback window opening. That's going
to start opening in about seven days,
seven trading days potentially.
Until then, I suspect our flow remains
largely sideways to negative before the
buybacks start. Now, there are billions
and billions of dollars of buybacks
scheduled. And you know, this is
manipulation by the overall instruments
to keep their stock price up. We have to
remember that. I'm going to clone this
to see if we've got any parallel motion.
Not really. It's pretty sticky to be
sure,
right? And the motion is
Let's use this line. This one looks
pretty good. If we lose 6,925,
I think we retest 680.
That is not
um that's not an unlikely that's not an
unlikely test. We do see there's a lot
of supply here. So 6875
is our new floor. Okay,
that's been that's going to be our new
floor. So we see what's happening. Price
action is trying to lift. The 30 minute
high which is also the zero DTE put wall
at 69.50 is sitting above. The call wall
is still up at 7,50.
Check it out. The put wall has moved
down to 6,600. So, what's it telling
you? It's telling you that there is
hedging going on. Even though they're
bullish, the instruments in the options,
we've got this bearish hedge sitting on
the bottom. Now short interest is at a
relative low and 85% of all the
instruments are within
I don't think that statistic is about
25% of their all-time highs. So that's a
lot of participation to the upside.
If we continue down the people who've
hedged are going to start making some
cash. Okay. So this is what we need to
remember that there is a downward hedge
being positioned with put options in the
broad market. Let's go to the NQ.
All right, taking a look at the NQ. Same
kind of pressure event, a little
steeper, right? Little steeper.
[snorts] This is a tough one, right? You
know, here's the thing. We could draw an
infinite number of trend lines. Trend
lines are not supposed to be traded to
the trend line because of the notion of
infinite numbers of trend lines
depending on which entry and which
target we use. That being said, it
definitely gives you trend, hence being
called a trend line.
So what we have to estimate in this
trend is
how is price action holding. Now what we
see in the ENQ it's a fair bit weaker
than the ES slope is a little steeper
but it's doing the same thing. It's
trying to get to the top of the 30-inut
candlestick formation and indeed return
to the gap fill which it too also
accomplished in the overnight.
My suspicion is that is the line in the
sand
25,640
above it more buyers are going to get
engaged below it sellers resume control.
put wall down here 25,000
that has not moved as much. It's still
25,000 from last week. The call wall
is 26,200.
It's sitting behind this max
or actually 26,000, excuse me. We've got
supply pockets
all the way up to 25,750.
That would be
our first target line I would
anticipate.
If it moves up continually, where is the
break down that says, "Hey, we've got
some more aggressive motion on the
horizon." That's about 200 points above
the put wall, 25,200.
Traders
likely to defend that area at the first
pass. They want to hold it. And we can
see clear supply that built in the
overnight. That being said,
this is counter trend. So what do we do
when we are looking for trend and a
position? We look for strength in
negative pressure events to go short.
Is this strength? Why yes, it is. Where
is the likely target? It's got two
edges. 25,50040
and then 25,630.
Easily it could get to this top.
Remember, as I said last night in market
kickoff, I'll put a link to that
particular uh video if you did not watch
it.
This motion here, buyers have a lot to
defend.
A lot to defend. They have to come in
here or they're telling the sellers
they're weakening.
That is not to be underestimated.
If we're staring this price action down,
this is what the chart is generally
telling us. And we can see this trend
line comes right into value area low
on the daily chart for what we are
staring down. So buyers have a lot to
prove. If they don't prove it, sellers
are going to step on their necks and
they know it. And so also, if you're
short and you took a short position here
or you took it on the breakdown, if it
gets up and over 25,550,
you're going to cover because you have
to or you're going to be upside down in
your trade. So, a lot could happen here.
You could take the aggressive short,
but I would say if it doesn't
immediately go in your favor,
cut and run. Okay? Or you can go in the
opposite direction.
All right? That took a long time. Uh
let's look at micro Bitcoin.
Okay, big cap down. We talked about this
also. It's a very important area. This
is the micro strategy
buy point.
Lot of reasons to defend here. Now, see
the gap down. Notice how weak Bitcoin
is. Notice,
unlike the others, not moving up to fill
the gap very well. So, my suspicion
is that if it loses the VWAP at 76,800,
there's more downside.
At which point that downside looks to me
like about 65. It could be uh it could
be more than that, but that's what I'm
that's what I'm thinking. 65 to 56. It's
my thought. Anyway, here we go. What are
we staring down? Price action
sideways
in this box. Are they trying to break
out? Yes.
But are they actually breaking out? No.
Remember,
this is a liquidity test. And so,
as trades continue to unwind,
margin calls, flights to safety, all
that stuff going on. Some people said,
"Hey, because gold and silver are
rotating down, Bitcoin's going to lift."
I don't I don't really buy that.
However, we'll watch. If it gets above
80,000,
it could easily walk up and start trying
to get to value area low, which is
82,000.
Okay? So, watch that.
That's very, very important to be
concerned. Is it to concern yourself
with a setup? Is it a downward
formation? Yes. What do you do in
downward formations? You look for
strength in weakness and you take the
short. Just like if you're looking at an
upward formation, you look for weakness
in the broad area of strength to move
forward. Okay, speaking of which,
let's take a look at crude oil.
Let's go to the daily. So, geopolitical
uncertainty has uh price action moving
up. chatter. Well, also
all the shorts contracts that are in
contango
going to have to get rolled. So, what
are we staring down? A support zone that
it just tested, which happens to be the
VWAP at 62. Now, my suspicion is that
this is a good bounce zone. And last
night, I talked about 62 being a good
spot. Waiting for 62 to recover after
hitting the low tells us which way to
go. Now oil fell down through this
region.
Why? Um positive talks between Iran
and
the US.
This story board we should know is a
wash, rinse, repeat.
What happens in the near term is that
geopolitical risk continues to rise. So
my
suspicion is that even if this bounces
and pulls back and looks like it's going
to break, all of this inventory
accumulation is very likely to break to
the north. So I see continued price
action
above the zone
of inventory accumulation that's $6240.
It's very close to that area right now.
So it's likely to bounce. If it fades
and heads to the bottom of the range,
that 6150ish,
it's not along until it recovers.
So, we've got that 6150 to watch. The
next thing, the next line of heavy
congestion is a 3day,
that's not three days, 2day anchored
VWAP around $60.70.
That's our next super solid support line
in my mind. If it breaks to the north
again, value area low is our first test.
That's going to be $6323.
It's also old resistance, new support,
and support that becomes resistance. So
a lot of things telling us that that is
the region price action is going to run
into right we suppose this so that's
what we'll be staring down VWAP above it
6430 point of control above it 6530
below which I significantly doubt that
we will head there but below the zone
is 5980
for downward formations. All right,
let's take a look at silver.
Silver has had a pretty nice bounce.
Here's the thing.
It's also very noisy. Take a look. 30
minute formations
to me. This is a 30-inut chart. These
candlesticks are telling me that
the dome
or the activity
inside of the pricing instrument is very
thin. When it's very thin, you're
trading in live markets. It's going to
shred you because you're going to get
fills that are 20 cents away from where
price action is. So be careful if you
plan to do this. Now, is silver likely
to bounce? Yeah, eventually.
Where is the put?
It's currently at 68. Where is the call
wall? It's at 120. Holy smokes, that's
really wide. What do you want to do? I'm
going to tell you what I'm going to do.
The only thing I'm trading in this space
is options.
I'm not going into the live futures
market because when you are trading in
thin markets, things that you think are
support
do not become support because people run
for the fire escape and they'll take any
price that is offered them to get out
any price.
Also, if someone gets very very short
and price starts creeping up, they are
going to have to buy to cover or risk
ruin. So,
I don't want to have either of those
things that I worry about. Just going to
watch this for now. You play it
absolutely fine. Do what you like.
Not a good market. Okay,
here's gold.
So, gold broke through this level. Let's
remove the alert.
That's the new call wall. It's at 5,000.
Well, no, it's been there, right? Value
area alone and the call wall are the
same number thereabouts. 5,000 bucks.
Value area low. What is the chart going
to try and do?
Resume the move to value.
What is the broad chart telling us?
Let's expand and take a look. Have a
look, folks.
This is why I say every day you start
from the biggest time frame that you can
see. Look at where this falls to in the
overnight old resistance and value area
high
and bounces savagely [snorts] off of
that line. It's 300 points to the north
almost. Okay. Where is it stopping right
now?
Where the price opened this morning
essentially.
Pre-market open yesterday evening. Okay.
Where did the high go? The open of
Friday.
No, that's the close of Friday. Sorry. I
thought it was
a green candle for some reason. Okay. So
now that's what we're seeing. Here is
our opening formation
30 minutes of the trade.
Where's it going to? This is the foot
wall for zero DTE. That's 4,800. It's
going to reject that also because it's
old support.
The big put wall is 4,700. So this put
wall is
pretty high. Let's see if it changes
today.
What are we staring down? Weakness,
relative strength, breaking through the
edge, supply zone
all the way up at the top of the call
wall. So that's what we want to watch
for the break of the call wall.
Could metals recover? Are they going to
go straight down in line? When does that
ever happen? Seriously, it's going to be
messy. People are going to try and buy
the dip and people are going to try and
heavily short it. That's going to cause
more volatility. The chains look a
little better here based on how the
candlesticks are moving, way better than
silver. And at the end of the day,
this support ledge that hit at 4,400 in
the overnight,
it's a really nice support leg. I mean,
very nice, almost to the tick. So, I
would suspect we've got ourselves a
near-term floor in the chart.
How does that make us trade? Well,
we collected inventory for a little bit
here and then walked up, collected some
more inventory, and walked up. What we
want to see is this original trigger
point at the breakdown here. How well do
we handle $497?
If we can get up over this $4,97,
we're going to move up into the 5,000
area. But if not, we are going to create
a base or region of inventory
accumulation
that the markets will stall out between
400 and this 4,400 and 4,900. So,
another $500 in the making. All right,
let's take a look at spy. Good grief.
I'm talking so much. Look at these
breakthroughs. Holy smokes. We're going
to remove the alert and then create the
alert again. Same numbers, critical
mass, 694 at the bottom,
at the top of resistance, excuse me,
as the primary resistance that will
separate buyers from sellers.
The first 30 minutes of trading
so far from the 4:00 am time slot for
SPY, they are trying to fill the gap.
Where are they going to go? Potentially
$691.
Where is the likely breakdown
if the price action loses 687
and does not quickly recover? It is not
a long, it is a short put wall all the
way down at 680. This is the wall we're
going to watch. This put wall is going
to be very important. It tells us about
hedging and what the traders are doing
in general. Is the trend down? Why yes,
it is. Are we sitting inside of
Thursday's price action? Well, we sure
are. Have a look.
We're inside this formation. So, it is
not unreasonable for us to attempt a
bounce at the first test of the low of
Thursday. So, keep your eyes open for
that. Essentially bullish if we lose it
and immediately recover.
That's the trend line we're watching.
Pardon me, my nose is running off my
face. All right, there we have. lot to
look at. I know I went long, but a lot
to stare down.
Messy bits ahead. We've got about seven
more days of sideways trading before the
stock buybacks start pushing liquidity
back into the market.
Who knows if Bitcoin will move along
with that, but there we are. Okay, take
care folks. I'll see you on the streams.